All right, so
let's pop over to our code sandbox again.
We're gonna go into the graph here.
So the first thing here is you're
gonna see there is a job site js.
This is a very long file with
a lot of people with randomly
generated names, titles and companies.
So again, I didn't write these,
I generated these.
And these people are all
connected to random people.
Right, so this person 27
Reuven Dowbekin is connected to id 33,
43, 503, 940, 175, 825.
So these are all the connections
that this person has.
And some people, this one has only three,
this person has four right?
So there's a varying amount.
So this describes our social
network of people I think there
are 1000 people in this particular set.
Okay.
If we head over to our function here
I kind of describe a little bit.
This is what the items
the objects look right?
They have an id, they have a name
accompany a title and a connection.
And I gave you here a function that you
can just call like get user 12 right?
And this will hand you back.
The user that's associated with id 12,
right?
So that's what this function is there for.
So actually, if I said get user 308,
it would literally hand me back this
object Okay.
So what I want you to do, now if you can
get rid of this, this is not true anymore.
You can ignore that code
pen link that's in there.
So, find most common title, what I want
you to do is I'm gonna give you an id.
So I'll give you id 30 on this one, and
then I'll give you degrees of separation,
right?
So, the one degree of separation would
be all the people that I'm connected to.
And two degrees of separation would
be the people I'm connected to and
the people they are connected to, right?
So on to three degrees, which is the
people those people are connected to and
all the people that are inside of that.
And the last one here which
is the extra credit one,
user id 1with seven degrees of separation,
which is all 1000 users except five,
right?
Yeah, so that's what I want you to do.
I want you to find the most common
job title amongst all of these
people in these networks.
There should be exactly one answer.
If you did help here down in this yeah,
I actually do have this little
function that I commented
out here that logs things
out in a very useful way.
So that can be helpful to you as well.
If you need something that's going
to log something out for you
So first thing we're gonna do down
here in the findMostCommonTitle,
we're gonna create a queue.
So let queue = and then we're just
gonna just queue up ourselves, okay?
We're gonna create a new set,
so const seen = new set.
And with one fun thing with sets,
you can give them an array of
things to see their data with.
You don't want to requeue
the id right there.
So we're going to add ourselves
to the already seen set.
And then we're going to have a jobs
objects where we're going to keep
track of all the jobs that
we're gonna see, okay?
Okay, now we're gonna write a for
loop, let i = 0, i is less than or
equal to degrees of separation.
Right because we're only
gonna go so many degrees and
then i++ const new queue.
New queue equals empty array.
And then here we're gonna
say while queue.length.
So the first thing we do is I'm gonna
say const user get user with queue.shift.
So we're gonna pull the first user off.
Okay, and then here I'm gonna
queue up the next iteration.
And the way I'm gonna do
that is I'm gonna save for.
Let j=0, j is less than users,
user rather.connections.length.
J++.
I'm gonna say const connection
= user.connections(j).
Then here, I'm just going to say if
I've already seen this user before.
Or rather if I haven't
seen this user before.
Seen.has(connection).
So if I've seen this user before I'm
not gonna add them to the new queue.
Otherwise, I'm gonna say
newQueue.push(connection)
seen.add(connection) so
I don't add the user again.
Okay, so
this is the part where I'm queuing up for
the next particular iteration.
And then down here, I'm just gonna
say jobs[user.title] = jobs,
user.title.
So if I've seen the user before,
or sorry, the job title.
So let's say it's program manager.
If I've seen it before,
if it already exists,
then what I want to do
is jobs(user.title) +1,
or I want to be 1, right?
So if I've never seen it before,
then I'm going to start it with one.
So if this is two,
then I wanna make it three.
If it doesn't exist,
then I wanna make it one.
That's what this little
bit of logic is doing.
Okay?
And then at the end of this
I'll have this newQueue, right?
Which is gonna be the new things, the next
level of connections I wanna process.
All I have to do is at the end of this.
Loop here is I'll just
say queue = newQueue.
Okay, so this four loop is gonna
determine how many degrees
breadth first traversal I'm
gonna do it on my connections.
And what this is doing is this is
queuing up the next level of connection.
So for example, if this is three right I
actually will have the fourth level of
connection's ready to process,
but it just won't do it right.
Because this will prevent
me from looping again.
Okay, now I'm going to end up
with this object called jobs
which kinda look something
like program manager.
Designer 3 right and
I need to turn this into a sorted list.
There's a bunch of ways to do that.
I'm happy with any way
that you choose to do it.
I'm just gonna go with object keys.
So I'm gonna say const jobkeys.
This actually probably would be better
off broken into a different function.
I just didn't, Object.keys[jobs].
This will give me back an array of all
the keys that are in the jobs object.
And then here, I'm just gonna loop over
it and say let biggestNumber=jobs.
Excuse me [COUGH] sorry,
let biggestNumber=Jobs
(jobkeys)(0) Let
jobName =jobKeys(0)
And then I'm just gonna do a for
loop over this and try and
find the one that has the biggest number.
You could absolutely do this
with like a reduce as well.
If you're into functional
programming like that, but
I find reduces are frequently
pretty hard to read.
So I'm just gonna do with a for
loop i is less than jobkeys.length i++.
Const currentJob =jobkeys(i).
If jobs.
CurrentJob.
Is bigger than biggestNumber
then jobName =currentJob and
biggestNumber is assigned
jobs(currentJob).
Okay, at the end of this
little bit right here,
I will have the job name which
will be the job that has
the most connections in my social network.
Okay, and then down here we
can just say return jobName.
Okay, we'll move skip down here.
And we will run this.
And if you look down here at graph,
you can see here that graph is passing.
So one more we'll see if that
works with extra credit.
And looks like it is.
So just for kind of funsies,
let's go grab over here from the solution
this little bit here, which is I just
wrote a little utility to log out.
All of the.
See all the job titles sorted.
All right so let's try running that.
Play, you can see down here this
is actually logging out for
us all the various different job keys.
Let's get that too.
And then we'll clear this and
run it again.
So you can see here geological
engineer that has 16.
The rest of us have 15
that's the last one.
That's the extra credit.
The one here with user 307
with 4 degrees of separation.
Pharmacist is 11.
Graphic designer on this one is 5.
And the top one here,
sorry yeah, that would be 0.5.
Librarian here is 3 with
2 degrees of separation.
Cool, so any questions on graph?
Is it always going to have or
is any solution always going to have
that amount of time complexity in it for
graph traversal?
>> Yeah, okay, I get your question.
So, I guess the question really is
like what's the complexity of this?
Cuz it's not n cubed.
So I know I told you to look out for
yeah, that's good question.
I know I told you to look for for nested
loops, but in reality here it's not like
this is looping over everything
in the particular array, right?
It's looping over a very small subsection
of things to the point that we can
basically ignore it, right?
Because, like if we look back
at our jobs array, right?
If it was n cubed, that means for
every additional person that we put
in this that we would be increasing
the amount of processing that we'd have
to do by a significant amount right?
This means that everything would
have to relate to everything else in
the array twice in like a exponential
fashion, which is not true, right?
Everything that we add to the jobs array
actually really only adds basically,
a negligible amount of complexity, right?
So and the reason for that,
if you're looking at this,
I'm looping over everything in the array.
So it's important to know like
what you're actually looping over.
In this particular case, we're not
looping over everything in the array,
we're just looping over connections,
right.
And those connections is never very much,
now, if every user is connected
to every other user in the array,
then we be in a world of hurt here, right?
But in this particular one,
we're just really asking,
have I seen this connection before,
no, cool, I'm good.
So the complexity here is really
determined on how many degrees of
separation we're going out there.
The more degrees of separation
that we're fanning out too,
we're getting exponentially
more complexity.
So any big how, here is going to have to
include however many degrees of separation
that we're going to go out.
It's going to be in terms of
the degrees of separation.
And as far as what a few.
>> How deep in the graph, we're like
the tree like structure that we're going,
that's just going to
exponentially increase.
>> Right.
>> Exactly, okay, that makes sense.
Thank you.
>> Yeah, of course.
I mean, have you heard of
the degrees of Kevin Bacon right?
Any actor can be connected to Kevin Bacon
with like 7 degrees of separation.
That's because once you go
out 7 degrees of separation,
you're now interacting with
half of the world's populace.
Right or something weird like that.
So, yeah, it's exponential based on that.
So yeah, good question.
Thank you.
>> If we use the max heap to sort
the traversals would it be more efficient
than just a linear iteration
on the results array?
>> If you used.
So here, we use a max heap.
So no, I don't think so.
So, this is a linear search, right this
is basically the definition of a linear
search, which a linear search is just and
right because we look at every
single item in the array.
And when you have an unsorted array,
which is basically what this is,
your best case scenario is that you
look at every item in the array.
Whereas if you're making a max heap,
it's going to be n plus a bit
more because you're doing some
unnecessary comparisons to get
ready to do like heapify and be able
to do either dq or like a heap sort.
So you're doing extra work that you
don't actually really need to do.
So I really appreciate where that person's
head is going because they are thinking
about it as, hey, I need to find
the biggest number on this array.
Heaps are very good for that.
So that's a good brain space to be in.
And I think that's like, don't lose that.
But in this particular case, literally the
most effective thing you can do is just
a for loop saying,
are you the biggest number?
Nope.
Are you the biggest number?
Until you eventually get to the end,
you will have found the, biggest number.
Now the difference in
complexity here is miniscule,
to the point that I wouldn't really
care so much if I saw that in code.
It's just overkill.
And in reality, we could've just used,
I think there's an -.max, right?
That's probably what I would've used
because that does that automatically for
you, but yeah, cool, good question.
And yeah, definitely go check out that
Neo4j stuff, if you enjoyed this.
We just basically implemented a bunch
of stuff that Neo4j just does for you,
allows you to write queries that like,
hey, give me the most common job
title within 5 degrees of my network.
And Neo4j is like, cool, I got that and
it can just go do all that processing for
you automatically just by
writing really cool queries.
And now you have the foundational
knowledge that you would need to
understand what's actually going on.